CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

Contributing to DeepTutor 🚀
Thank you for your interest in contributing to DeepTutor! We are committed to building a smooth and robust intelligent learning companion, and we welcome developers of all skill levels to join us.
Join our community for discussion, support, and collaboration:
<p align="center">
<a href="https://discord.gg/eRsjPgMU4t"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord-Join_Community-5865F2?style=for-the-badge&logo=discord&logoColor=white" alt="Discord"></a>&nbsp;
<a href="https://github.com/HKUDS/DeepTutor/issues/78"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/WeChat-Join_Group-07C160?style=for-the-badge&logo=wechat&logoColor=white" alt="WeChat"></a>&nbsp;
<a href="./Communication.md"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Feishu-Join_Group-00D4AA?style=for-the-badge&logo=feishu&logoColor=white" alt="Feishu"></a>
</p>

## Table of Contents
- [Contribution Requirements](#️-contribution-requirements)
- [Code Quality & Security](#-code-quality--security)
- [Security Best Practices](#-security-best-practices)
- [Coding Standards](#-coding-standards)
- [Development Setup](#-development-setup)
- [Commit Message Format](#-commit-message-format)
- [How to Get Started](#-how-to-get-started)

## ⚠️ Contribution Requirements
[!IMPORTANT]
All contributions must be based on the `dev` branch!
1. Fork the repository and clone it locally.
2. **Synchronize**: Always pull from the `dev` branch before starting:
   ```bash
   git checkout dev && git pull origin dev
   ```
3. **Branch**: Create your feature branch from `dev`:
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
   ```
4. **PR Target**: Submit your Pull Request to the `dev` branch (not `main`).
5. **Validation**: Ensure all pre-commit checks pass before submitting.

## 🛠️ Code Quality & Security
We use a suite of automated tools to maintain high standards of code quality and security. These are configured via `pyproject.toml` and `.pre-commit-config.yaml`.

### Our Toolstack
- **Ruff**: High-performance Python linting and formatting.
- **Prettier**: Consistent formatting for frontend and configuration files.
- **detect-secrets**: Scans for high-entropy strings and hardcoded secrets.
- **pip-audit**: Scans dependencies for known vulnerabilities (V3.x compatible).
- **Bandit**: Analyzes code for common security issues.
- **MyPy**: Static type checking to ensure code reliability.
- **Interrogate**: Reports docstring coverage. While it won't block your commit, please aim for high coverage.

[!TIP]
Before submitting a PR, you MUST run:
```bash
pre-commit run --all-files
```
While local pre-commit hooks are configured to be lenient and may only show warnings, the CI will perform strict checks and will automatically reject PRs that fail.

## 🔒 Security Best Practices
### File Uploads
- **Size Limits**: General files are capped at 100MB; PDFs are capped at 50MB to prevent resource exhaustion.
- **Validation**: We enforce multi-layer validation (Extension + MIME type + Content sanitization).
- **Sanitization**: All filenames are sanitized to prevent path traversal attacks.

### Development Standards
- **Subprocesses**: Always use `shell=False` when calling subprocesses to prevent command injection.
- **Pathing**: Use `pathlib.Path` for all operations to ensure cross-platform (Windows/Linux/macOS) compatibility.
- **Line Endings**: LF (Unix) line endings are enforced for critical scripts via `.gitattributes`.

## 🧪 Testing & Coverage Requirements

### Coverage Goals
- **Docstring Coverage**: 100% for all exported symbols (functions, classes, modules)
- **Pytest Coverage**: 80-90% overall, with 100% branch coverage for critical business logic (LLM, embedding, RAG pipelines)

### Testing Frameworks
- **Unit Tests**: pytest with asyncio support
- **Integration Tests**: For LLM/embedding providers (requires API keys)
- **Type Checking**: mypy with strict mode
- **Linting**: ruff (replaces flake8, isort, pylint)

### Running Tests

#### Basic Test Suite
```bash
# Run all unit tests (no network calls)
pytest

# Run with coverage report
pytest --cov=src --cov-report=html
```

#### LLM & Embedding Tests (Required for Related Changes)
> [!WARNING]
> If you're working on LLM, embedding, or RAG features, you **MUST** run network tests to ensure providers work correctly.

**Prerequisites**: Populate `.env` with API keys for providers you want to test.


# SSL inspection must be disabled to avoid SSL/TLS errors during tests.
DISABLE_SSL_VERIFY=true  # Set to 'true' to disable SSL verification for LLM network tests.
                        # It is recommended to set this to 'true' only for testing purposes.

# [Optional] For VS Code users: To enable the Python extension to load environment
# variables from this .env file, set `python.terminal.useEnvFile` to 'True' in your
# VS Code settings (settings.json). This ensures the environment is correctly
# configured for network tests. Note that this setting is for the VS Code terminal,
# not for the Python interpreter itself. It is recommended to add this setting to
# your workspace settings (`.vscode/settings.json`) or user settings.

# If unable to set via IDE, you can manually load the .env file in your test setup
# code as follows (PowerShell example):
#
# $envContent = Get-Content .env -Raw
# foreach ($line in ($envContent -split "`n")) {
#     if ($line -match '^([^=]+)=(.*)$') {
#         $key = $Matches[1].Trim()
#         $value = $Matches[2].Trim()
#         [Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable($key, $value, "Process")
#     }
# }

# If you need to test specific providers, use LLM_BINDING=<provider> with the integration tests.
```

#### Coverage Commands
```bash
# Check docstring coverage
interrogate -v src/

# Check pytest coverage
pytest --cov=src --cov-report=term-missing

# Combined quality check
pre-commit run --all-files
```

## ⚙️ Development Setup
<details>
<summary><b>Setting Up Your Environment (Recommended)</b></summary>

**Step 1: Create a virtual environment**
```bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
```

**Step 2: Install dependencies**
```bash
pip install -e ".[all]"
```
</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Setting Up Pre-commit (First Time Only)</b></summary>

**Step 1: Install pre-commit**
```bash
# Using pip
pip install pre-commit

# Or using conda
conda install -c conda-forge pre-commit
```

**Step 2: Install Git hooks**
```bash
pre-commit install
```
Hooks will now run automatically on every commit.

**Step 3: Initialize the Secrets Baseline**
If you encounter new "false positive" secrets (like API hash placeholders), update the baseline:
```bash
detect-secrets scan > .secrets.baseline
```
</details>

### Common Commands
| Task              | Command                                        |
|-------------------|------------------------------------------------|
| Check all files   | `pre-commit run --all-files`                   |
| Check quietly     | `pre-commit run --all-files -q`                |
| Update tools      | `pre-commit autoupdate`                        |
| Emergency skip    | `git commit --no-verify -m "message"` (Not recommended) |

## 📋 Commit Message Format
We follow a structured commit format to maintain a clean history:
```
<type>: <short description>

[optional body]
```
- `feat`: A new feature (corresponds to a MINOR version bump).
- `fix`: A bug fix (corresponds to a PATCH version bump).
- `docs`: Documentation only changes.
- `style`: Changes that do not affect the meaning of the code (formatting, missing semi-colons, etc).
- `refactor`: A code change that neither fixes a bug nor adds a feature.
- `test`: Adding missing tests or correcting existing tests.
- `chore`: Routine tasks (updating build processes, etc).

## 💡 How to Get Started
1. Browse our [Issues](https://github.com/HKUDS/DeepTutor/issues) for tasks labeled `good first issue`.
2. Comment on the issue to let others know you're working on it.
3. Follow the process above and submit your PR!

Questions? Reach out on Discord.
Let's build the future of AI tutoring together! 🚀

Commit message:

Restore search providers from upstream hkuds/main; add provider tests and integration test scaffolding; fix logging and stream parser behavior

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

Contributing to DeepTutor 🚀
Thank you for your interest in contributing to DeepTutor! We are committed to building a smooth and robust intelligent learning companion, and we welcome developers of all skill levels to join us.
Join our community for discussion, support, and collaboration:
<p align="center">
<a href="https://discord.gg/eRsjPgMU4t"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord-Join_Community-5865F2?style=for-the-badge&logo=discord&logoColor=white" alt="Discord"></a>&nbsp;
<a href="https://github.com/HKUDS/DeepTutor/issues/78"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/WeChat-Join_Group-07C160?style=for-the-badge&logo=wechat&logoColor=white" alt="WeChat"></a>&nbsp;
<a href="./Communication.md"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Feishu-Join_Group-00D4AA?style=for-the-badge&logo=feishu&logoColor=white" alt="Feishu"></a>
</p>

## Table of Contents
- [Contribution Requirements](#️-contribution-requirements)
- [Code Quality & Security](#-code-quality--security)
- [Security Best Practices](#-security-best-practices)
- [Coding Standards](#-coding-standards)
- [Development Setup](#-development-setup)
- [Commit Message Format](#-commit-message-format)
- [How to Get Started](#-how-to-get-started)

## ⚠️ Contribution Requirements
[!IMPORTANT]
All contributions must be based on the `dev` branch!
1. Fork the repository and clone it locally.
2. **Synchronize**: Always pull from the `dev` branch before starting:
   ```bash
   git checkout dev && git pull origin dev
   ```
3. **Branch**: Create your feature branch from `dev`:
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
   ```
4. **PR Target**: Submit your Pull Request to the `dev` branch (not `main`).
5. **Validation**: Ensure all pre-commit checks pass before submitting.

## 🛠️ Code Quality & Security
We use a suite of automated tools to maintain high standards of code quality and security. These are configured via `pyproject.toml` and `.pre-commit-config.yaml`.

### Our Toolstack
- **Ruff**: High-performance Python linting and formatting.
- **Prettier**: Consistent formatting for frontend and configuration files.
- **detect-secrets**: Scans for high-entropy strings and hardcoded secrets.
- **pip-audit**: Scans dependencies for known vulnerabilities (V3.x compatible).
- **Bandit**: Analyzes code for common security issues.
- **MyPy**: Static type checking to ensure code reliability.
- **Interrogate**: Reports docstring coverage. While it won't block your commit, please aim for high coverage.

[!TIP]
Before submitting a PR, you MUST run:
```bash
pre-commit run --all-files
```
While local pre-commit hooks are configured to be lenient and may only show warnings, the CI will perform strict checks and will automatically reject PRs that fail.

## 🔒 Security Best Practices
### File Uploads
- **Size Limits**: General files are capped at 100MB; PDFs are capped at 50MB to prevent resource exhaustion.
- **Validation**: We enforce multi-layer validation (Extension + MIME type + Content sanitization).
- **Sanitization**: All filenames are sanitized to prevent path traversal attacks.

### Development Standards
- **Subprocesses**: Always use `shell=False` when calling subprocesses to prevent command injection.
- **Pathing**: Use `pathlib.Path` for all operations to ensure cross-platform (Windows/Linux/macOS) compatibility.
- **Line Endings**: LF (Unix) line endings are enforced for critical scripts via `.gitattributes`.

## 🧪 Testing & Coverage Requirements

### Coverage Goals
- **Docstring Coverage**: 100% for all exported symbols (functions, classes, modules)
- **Pytest Coverage**: 80-90% overall, with 100% branch coverage for critical business logic (LLM, embedding, RAG pipelines)

### Testing Frameworks
- **Unit Tests**: pytest with asyncio support
- **Integration Tests**: For LLM/embedding providers (requires API keys)
- **Type Checking**: mypy with strict mode
- **Linting**: ruff (replaces flake8, isort, pylint)

### Running Tests

#### Basic Test Suite
```bash
# Run all unit tests (no network calls)
pytest

# Run with coverage report
pytest --cov=src --cov-report=html
```

#### LLM & Embedding Tests (Required for Related Changes)
> [!WARNING]
> If you're working on LLM, embedding, or RAG features, you **MUST** run network tests to ensure providers work correctly.

**Prerequisites**: Populate `.env` with API keys for providers you want to test.


```text
# Integration test guidance
# - Integration tests are marked with @pytest.mark.integration and will be skipped
#   automatically if required environment variables (API keys, hosts) are absent.
# - To enforce key validation locally or in CI, set ENFORCE_LLM_KEYS=1; tests will
#   then fail fast for missing or malformed keys.
# - Do NOT enable DISABLE_SSL_VERIFY in CI or production; it may mask TLS issues.
# - If you encounter TLS/SSL errors locally (e.g., SSLV3_ALERT_BAD_RECORD_MAC),
#   check your proxy (HTTP(S)_PROXY/HTTPS_PROXY env vars) and network TLS inspection.
#   The test harness now runs lightweight TLS diagnostics and logs cipher/protocol
#   and peer cert info to help debugging.

# [Optional] For VS Code users: To enable the Python extension to load environment
# variables from this .env file, set `python.terminal.useEnvFile` to 'True' in your
# VS Code settings (settings.json). This ensures the environment is correctly
# configured for network tests. Note that this setting is for the VS Code terminal,
# not for the Python interpreter itself. It is recommended to add this setting to
# your workspace settings (`.vscode/settings.json`) or user settings.

# If unable to set via IDE, you can manually load the .env file in your test setup
# code as follows (PowerShell example):
#
# $envContent = Get-Content .env -Raw
# foreach ($line in ($envContent -split "`n")) {
#     if ($line -match '^([^=]+)=(.*)$') {
#         $key = $Matches[1].Trim()
#         $value = $Matches[2].Trim()
#         [Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable($key, $value, "Process")
#     }
# }
```

# If you need to test specific providers, use LLM_BINDING=<provider> with the integration tests.
```

#### Coverage Commands
```bash
# Check docstring coverage
interrogate -v src/

# Check pytest coverage
pytest --cov=src --cov-report=term-missing

# Combined quality check
pre-commit run --all-files
```

## ⚙️ Development Setup
<details>
<summary><b>Setting Up Your Environment (Recommended)</b></summary>

**Step 1: Create a virtual environment**
```bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
```

**Step 2: Install dependencies**
```bash
pip install -e ".[all]"
```
</details>

<details>
<summary><b>Setting Up Pre-commit (First Time Only)</b></summary>

**Step 1: Install pre-commit**
```bash
# Using pip
pip install pre-commit

# Or using conda
conda install -c conda-forge pre-commit
```

**Step 2: Install Git hooks**
```bash
pre-commit install
```
Hooks will now run automatically on every commit.

**Step 3: Initialize the Secrets Baseline**
If you encounter new "false positive" secrets (like API hash placeholders), update the baseline:
```bash
detect-secrets scan > .secrets.baseline
```
</details>

### Common Commands
| Task              | Command                                        |
|-------------------|------------------------------------------------|
| Check all files   | `pre-commit run --all-files`                   |
| Check quietly     | `pre-commit run --all-files -q`                |
| Update tools      | `pre-commit autoupdate`                        |
| Emergency skip    | `git commit --no-verify -m "message"` (Not recommended) |

## 📋 Commit Message Format
We follow a structured commit format to maintain a clean history:
```
<type>: <short description>

[optional body]
```
- `feat`: A new feature (corresponds to a MINOR version bump).
- `fix`: A bug fix (corresponds to a PATCH version bump).
- `docs`: Documentation only changes.
- `style`: Changes that do not affect the meaning of the code (formatting, missing semi-colons, etc).
- `refactor`: A code change that neither fixes a bug nor adds a feature.
- `test`: Adding missing tests or correcting existing tests.
- `chore`: Routine tasks (updating build processes, etc).

## 💡 How to Get Started
1. Browse our [Issues](https://github.com/HKUDS/DeepTutor/issues) for tasks labeled `good first issue`.
2. Comment on the issue to let others know you're working on it.
3. Follow the process above and submit your PR!

Questions? Reach out on Discord.
Let's build the future of AI tutoring together! 🚀
